[Music]
you know it's like
no i'm like i'm 34
and
[Music]
that is the thing that sucks about
getting older
said uh the older you get the more
people you lose
and i haven't talked to moses
in a couple years but one of the first
messages that we sent back
and forth to each other was like oh
you're learning japanese i'm learning
japanese too
and then over the years it would be like
well how
just know that we we would go back and
forth
on occasion not that often i mean we
weren't super good friends but
we knew of each other we would talk to
each other on occasion but
i don't know i just
i still remember that stupid [ __ ] hat
you gotta remember guys that our time
here is short
and we gotta stop making excuses
we gotta we gotta do what what we gotta
do for the short time that we have it
i don't have many regrets in life but i
do regret
that we've known each other for so long
and i hadn't reached out in a while
a lot of people live with this kind of
tension
in their lives and it becomes obvious
in the moments following after the death
of a loved one
or when you receive the shocking
unexpected news
that somebody you knew on youtube has
died
some old colleague or some old friend
but a lot of people live with this
tension
all the time and they don't
think about what the alternative would
be
what the opposite way of living would be
what that would really
entail in terms of your personal
commitment
right what would it mean
to not have and to never have
this regret in life that you didn't stay
in touch with people
right to never be in this position of
looking back
and saying wow i wish i'd made the
effort i wish i'd built on that
friendship more
i wish i hadn't maybe lost touch with
that person after
i made the effort to to really be
friends that person okay
and if you think it through if you think
it through
taking that alternate path or taking
that kind of commitment to its opposite
extreme
entails a very different sort of tragedy
although it certainly would mean that
you'd never have
this kind of regret in your life
think seriously about why people
don't stay in touch with one another
i would say the number one reason nobody
wants to face up to
nobody wants to talk about is shame
most people are not proud
of what they've done with their lives
they're not proud
of what they're doing right now and when
they become
most keenly aware of their sense of
shame
is when they speak to friends
acquaintances and family members people
who remember
what their commitments were what their
promises were
what their aspirations were maybe just
six months ago
but maybe five years ago right
i am someone who's lived my life with a
very high level of commitment
not just to friends not even just to
acquaintances
but to people i consider colleagues and
i say that because sometimes your
colleagues are neither your friends nor
acquaintances
they may be people you don't like but
who you value
because of some kind of cooperative or
collaborative
connection and i'm willing to make a
very very high level of effort
to stay in touch with for years and for
decades
people i just consider my colleagues
why do my colleagues stop talking to me
i've seen dramatic examples of this
okay it's because they're cheating on
their wives
it's because they broke up with their
wife and they're with a new chick
or they they split up with their wife
because they were sleeping with their
secretary
and they were living together for a
while and then they broke up with her
and now they're in this other situation
and they don't want to talk to somebody
who knew them before
who was friends with them when they were
together with their wife
right this is an easy example okay it's
easy because it's all out in the open
you can't really conceal it
right they can't conceal it
what they can do is avoid dealing with
the consequences
by avoiding you by avoiding talking to
anyone who knew them
before when they were in that marriage
or when they when they were telling
everybody they knew
that although they broke up their
marriage they did it because they were
so in love with their secretary
and this relation with the secretary was
gonna last forever right then they
really feel like
a fool because that didn't work out that
only lasted a couple months then they
and some people are conscious that
they're doing this and most
are not okay i knew people
who were buddhist scholars and gave up
on buddhist scholarship i knew people
who were doing humanitarian work
in southeast asia and gave up on
humanitarian work i knew people who were
trying to be
political intellectuals of different
kinds and they
gave up on those aspirations those
ambitions
that vision of themselves and of who
they aspired to be
right i'll be honest
i think the shame that comes from that
is much
deeper and much more difficult to deal
with
than cheating on your wife or falling in
love with your secretary
because a hundred percent of it is on
you
if you're if your marriage falls apart
there were at least two people involved
depending on what kind of marriage maybe
there were three or four or five people
involved but there were at least two
people
it's not a hundred percent any one
person's
fault the reason why marriage didn't
work out there's going to be some blame
to go around
right when you made connections
when you gather people around you
whether those were bonds you know
bonds of friendship or was more like
someone who was a colleague
or more like someone who was you know
just an acquaintance
over the internet knowing them
staying in touch with them when your
sense
of ambition and purpose has shifted or
your sense of ambition and purpose
has crumbled okay it's a reminder of
what it was you aspired to do before
what kind of person you aspired to be
and then just just type just answering
an email from them
just talking them on skype just staying
in touch by facebook message
it's the most painful the most shameful
thing in the world
because it makes you stop and reflect on
what it is you're really doing with your
life
right now
it's easy to say oh i wish i'd stayed
and touched them
i wish i'd still shared my life with him
i wish it would
really examine why you don't
why you don't stay in touch with the
same people from one
phase or one period of your life to the
next and stop and reflect on the other
side because it takes two to tango
there's somebody else there what are
their reasons
for letting that gulf of silence
open up
most people find it very difficult
to reconcile the grandiosity
of their past ambitions with the
mediocrity
of their achievements the compromises
they've made
and most of the time it's not something
as dramatic and palpable
as leaving your wife because you
fell in love with your secretary for a
lot of people
it's just alcohol
marijuana video games
a job that pays the bills
that doesn't exhaust you doesn't take up
24 hours a day
right but that can become a pretext
for giving up on all of your own
ambitions you never write that novel
you said you wanted to write you never
do that research you never
you know you never record that album as
a musician
you know what if you give up making
youtube videos
whatever it is right
a lot of people sell out
and they can't point to anything they
bought
they can't point to anything they really
got in return they lose
that sense of motivation and purpose
that may be for many of you in the
audience why you're not in touch with
people
you knew in the past and
seen or unseen that may be a reason why
many of them
are not in touch with you my sling is
editorial explicit material
briefcase show live and stereo flow fill
me